#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck column:1
Cell Biology	What organelle makes most of the cell’s ATP?	The mitochondria
Cell Biology	What do ribosomes do?	They build proteins by reading mRNA
Cell Biology	Which organelle packages proteins and ships them out of the cell?	The Golgi apparatus
Cell Biology	What surrounds and protects a cell?	The plasma membrane, a double layer of phospholipids
Cell Biology	What is the job of lysosomes?	They break down waste and worn-out parts with enzymes
Cell Biology	Where does photosynthesis happen in a plant cell?	In the chloroplasts
Cell Biology	What does rough ER have that smooth ER lacks?	Ribosomes on its surface
Cell Biology	Where is DNA kept in a eukaryotic cell?	In the nucleus
Cell Biology	How do prokaryotic cells differ from eukaryotic cells?	They have no nucleus and no membrane-bound organelles
Cell Biology	What is osmosis?	Water moving across a membrane toward the side with more dissolved particles
Cell Biology	What is diffusion?	Molecules spreading from where they are crowded to where they are not
Cell Biology	What does a plant cell wall do?	It gives the cell its shape and support
Cell Biology	Which molecule carries amino acids to the ribosome?	tRNA (transfer RNA)
Cell Biology	In which phase of mitosis do chromosomes line up in the middle of the cell?	Metaphase
Cell Biology	What are the four phases of mitosis, in order?	Prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase
Cell Biology	What does the cytoskeleton do?	It holds the cell’s shape and moves parts around inside it
Cell Biology	What is active transport?	Moving molecules against their gradient, which costs energy (ATP)
Cell Biology	What do centrioles help with?	Organizing the spindle fibers during cell division
Cell Biology	The {{c1::mitochondrion}} is the powerhouse of the cell.	It makes ATP through cellular respiration.
Cell Biology	During {{c1::translation}}, ribosomes read mRNA to build a protein.
Cell Biology	{{c1::Enzymes}} speed up reactions in cells without being used up.
Cell Biology	The fluid inside a cell, outside the nucleus, is the {{c1::cytoplasm}}.
Spanish Basics	hola	hello
Spanish Basics	adiós	goodbye
Spanish Basics	por favor	please
Spanish Basics	gracias	thank you
Spanish Basics	de nada	you’re welcome
Spanish Basics	buenos días	good morning
Spanish Basics	buenas noches	good night
Spanish Basics	¿Cómo estás?	How are you?
Spanish Basics	Me llamo…	My name is…
Spanish Basics	¿Cómo te llamas?	What is your name?
Spanish Basics	mucho gusto	nice to meet you
Spanish Basics	lo siento	I’m sorry
Spanish Basics	perdón	excuse me
Spanish Basics	el agua	the water
Spanish Basics	la comida	the food
Spanish Basics	la casa	the house
Spanish Basics	el libro	the book
Spanish Basics	¿Dónde está el baño?	Where is the bathroom?
Spanish Basics	¿Cuánto cuesta?	How much does it cost?
Spanish Basics	No entiendo.	I don’t understand.
Spanish Basics	¿Hablas inglés?	Do you speak English?
Spanish Basics	hablar	to speak
Spanish Basics	comer	to eat
Spanish Basics	vivir	to live
Spanish Basics	Yo {{c1::hablo}} español.	I speak Spanish.
Spanish Basics	Ella {{c1::come}} una manzana.	She eats an apple.
Spanish Basics	Nosotros {{c1::vivimos}} en una ciudad.	We live in a city.
Organic Chemistry	What is the general formula of an alkane?	CnH2n+2
Organic Chemistry	Which functional group makes a molecule an alcohol?	–OH (hydroxyl)
Organic Chemistry	Which functional group makes a molecule a carboxylic acid?	–COOH
Organic Chemistry	What are isomers?	Molecules with the same formula but a different structure
Organic Chemistry	What is a chiral center?	A carbon bonded to four different groups
Organic Chemistry	What does SN2 stand for?	Substitution, nucleophilic, bimolecular
Organic Chemistry	What happens to the configuration in an SN2 reaction?	It inverts (the nucleophile attacks from the back)
Organic Chemistry	Which carbocation is the most stable?	Tertiary
Organic Chemistry	What is Markovnikov’s rule?	When HX adds to an alkene, the H goes to the carbon that already has more hydrogens
Organic Chemistry	What reaction makes an ester from a carboxylic acid and an alcohol?	Fischer esterification
Organic Chemistry	What is the hybridization of each carbon in ethene?	sp2
Organic Chemistry	What is the hybridization of each carbon in ethyne?	sp
Organic Chemistry	What is a double bond made of?	One sigma bond and one pi bond
Organic Chemistry	What is an electrophile?	An electron-poor species that accepts an electron pair
Organic Chemistry	What is a nucleophile?	An electron-rich species that donates an electron pair
Organic Chemistry	What does complete combustion of a hydrocarbon make?	Carbon dioxide and water
Organic Chemistry	What are enantiomers?	Mirror-image molecules that cannot be stacked on each other
Organic Chemistry	Which has the higher boiling point: an alcohol or an alkane of similar size?	The alcohol, because of hydrogen bonding
Organic Chemistry	An {{c1::aldehyde}} has a carbonyl group at the end of a carbon chain.
Organic Chemistry	A {{c1::ketone}} has a carbonyl group between two carbons.
Organic Chemistry	In an E2 reaction, a {{c1::strong base}} removes a proton while the leaving group leaves.
World Geography	What is the capital of Canada?	Ottawa
World Geography	What is the capital of Australia?	Canberra
World Geography	What is the capital of Brazil?	Brasília
World Geography	What is the capital of Japan?	Tokyo
World Geography	What is the capital of Egypt?	Cairo
World Geography	What is the capital of Kenya?	Nairobi
World Geography	What is the capital of Turkey?	Ankara
World Geography	What is the capital of Peru?	Lima
World Geography	What is the capital of Spain?	Madrid
World Geography	What is the capital of India?	New Delhi
World Geography	What are the three capitals of South Africa?	Pretoria, Cape Town, and Bloemfontein
World Geography	Which is the largest ocean?	The Pacific Ocean
World Geography	What is the longest river in Africa?	The Nile
World Geography	What is the tallest mountain above sea level?	Mount Everest
World Geography	Which country is the largest by area?	Russia
World Geography	Which is the smallest country in the world?	Vatican City
World Geography	Which continent has the most countries?	Africa
World Geography	What is the imaginary line at 0° latitude?	The Equator
World Geography	What is the imaginary line at 0° longitude?	The Prime Meridian
World Geography	What is the largest hot desert?	The Sahara
World Geography	What is the deepest ocean trench?	The Mariana Trench
World Geography	The {{c1::Amazon}} River carries more water than any other river.
World Geography	The {{c1::Himalayas}} are the highest mountain range on Earth.
